# Kickstarter Analysis
## Overview of the Project
The purpose of this analysis is to attempt at finding the underlying conditions for a successful in a crowd funding campaign, as the client is interested in using crowd funding to sponsor her projects i.e. plays. The analysis will be based off crowd funding data available where we will look at threatre/plays genre. Two important variables we will be focusing on when crowd funding is when the crowd funding was launched and what the initial goals of the campaign were.
## Analysis and Challenges
Our first analysis looks at the dataset based on when the crowd funding campaign was launched, filtered by the threatre category for a calendar year; note that the dataset covers between 2010 to 2017, reorganized in a calendar year. The purpose for this is to see if there is an optimal timing for launching crowd funding campaigns, to secure the best chance of success. Below is a line graph based on the described specifications, where we see successful, failed & canceled crowd funding threatre campaigns.
As we can see, the most successful campaigns (gap between success & failed line) are usually launched in May and June, while the less successful campaigns are launched in December. One of the challenges for this analysis was grouping the launch dates to provide something meaningful, for example if we had used years & months, it was difficult to gain quick insight as the data is quite sparse e.g. not enough data points in the earlier years and 2017 did not cover the whole year; by setting the grouping to months only i.e. looking at calendar year, we were able to gain quick insight on any seasonality related issues.
The second part of our analysis looks at the original dataset based on what the initial crowd funding goals were for plays only. The purpose of this is to find out what type of campaigns are usually successful for our genre i.e. small vs big productions. What was done here is we binned all the successful/failed/canceled plays based on a range of goals e.g. less than 1,000, 1,000 to 4,999, etc., which enables us to see the breakdowns of success and failures. Below is a line graph that shows the outcomes based on the bins we have set. 
As we can see, typically there is a higher likelyhood of success for smaller projects until around the 20,000 mark, where projects do tend to fail except the 35,000 to 44,999 range. One of the challenges for this analysis was ensuring the formulas were correct in pulling from the dataset; to ensure accuracy, I added another row for goals at 50,000, added all our formula calculated amounts and applied it against the total number of rows of success which helped spotting any potential errors.
## Results
From the first part of our analysis we can conclude that generally theatre campaigns are more likely successful in May & June, while failures are highest in December. One of the limitations of this conclusion is that we cannot be certain why certain months have different success/failure patterns i.e. whether there is some sort of seasonality causing it or other factors in play. Another useful graph in helping us shape our analysis is to group launch dates based on years and months, where we can confirm whether we see the same patterns for different years on those same months. We can also provide another graph based only on years to see whether certain years were better for launches than others. 
The second part of our analysis we can conclude is that play campaigns are more likely to succeed on lower goal targets, especially under 4,999 where the successful rate is about 73%. Intuitively this makes sense as its easier to hit lower targets for crowd funding than higher ones. One of the limitations of the analysis is the limited number of data points we have for larger goal totals making it difficult for us to be completely concrete in our analysis as we see high success rates in the 35,000 to 44,999 range i.e. success greater than number of failures. Something else we can do is narrow down our analysis based on a specified country so that we can see whether there are any differences between countries and chart them against each other for a comparative picture.